crowdsec-parsers-scenarios/step2/8.md, before:

```yaml
MANDATORY: NO
TYPE: NODE
```

[golang type](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/crowdsecurity/crowdsec@v1.4.4/pkg/parser#Node)

```yaml{1,8,17}
      - grok:
          pattern: "provided empty username or password"
          apply_on: message
        onsuccess: next_stage
        statics:
          - meta: sub_type
            value: "empty_username_pass"
      - grok:
          pattern: "invalid login request USER=\\(%{DATA:username}\\)"
          apply_on: message
        onsuccess: next_stage
        statics:
          - meta: username
            expression: evt.Parsed.username
          - meta: sub_type
            value: "invalid_login"
      - grok:
          pattern: "(%{NOT_FOUND}|%{UNAUTH}) URI=\\(%{DATA:http_path}\\)"
          apply_on: message
        pattern_syntax:
          NOT_FOUND: 'resource not found'
          UNAUTH: 'unauthorized request'
        onsuccess: next_stage
        statics:
          - meta: sub_type
            value: "http_bruteforce"
```

We briefly touched on what properties a `node`{{}} could have in the previous step. There are many options so in this section we will be listing the most common ones and how they can be used.

#### Statics

We will take a deeper dive later on what statics is and how it can be used, but for this section we will learn some basics. In short, if the `GROK`{{}} pattern is successful on the `node`{{}} then the `statics`{{}} are applied to the event object.

```yaml{2,3}
        statics:
          - meta: sub_type
            value: "empty_username_pass"
```

So inside the first child `node`{{}} if the `message`{{}} property includes `provided empty username or password`{{}} then on `evt.Meta`{{}} the property `sub_type`{{}} will be populated with `empty_username_pass`{{}}. This will then be used within the scenarios to create different bucket types based on the attack types.

Moving on to the second child `node`{{}} we can see an interesting section within the `pattern`{{}}.

```
pattern: "invalid login request USER=\\(%{DATA:username}\\)"
                                     |                   |
                                    Here                Here
```

Why do we need to escape with `\\`{{}}? As the string is `GROK`{{}} and `RE2`{{}} the characters `()`{{}} are classed as special and we want to process them as characters in the string rather than a regexp syntax. So for this, we must place `\\`{{}} before each of them.

Here is a list of special characters and their function:

Characters | Function
---|---
[] | Matches a range of characters
() | Group characters
{} | Matches a specified number of occurrences of the previous
+ | Match one or more of the previous
| | Matches previous OR next character/group
? | Match zero or one of the previous
* | Match zero, one or more of the previous
. | Matches any single character
$ | End of a string
^ | Beginning of a string

>But in most common languages a single `\` is enough to escape? Yes normally, however, since it passed through 2 separate engines we must double escape.

Now the third child `node`{{}} incorporates what we learnt in the previous `node`{{}}, and shows how to detect two different strings with similar syntax.

#### Pattern syntax

```yaml{4,5,6}
      - grok:
          pattern: "(%{NOT_FOUND}|%{UNAUTH}) URI=\\(%{DATA:http_path}\\)"
          apply_on: message
        pattern_syntax:
          NOT_FOUND: 'resource not found'
          UNAUTH: 'unauthorized request'
```

`pattern_syntax`{{}} allows us to define named capture group expressions for future use in grok patterns. Regexp must be a valid RE2 expression.

So for example these log lines will be treated the same without having to repeat ourselves
```
2023-01-11T15:32:13Z 10.10.10.10 resource not found URI=(/favicon.ico)
2023-01-11T15:32:18Z 10.10.10.10 resource not found URI=(/notfound)
2023-01-11T15:32:22Z 10.10.10.10 unauthorized request URI=(/admin)
```

Let's add all the child nodes to our parser!
```
echo "      - grok:
          pattern: \"provided empty username or password\"
          apply_on: message
        onsuccess: next_stage
        statics:
          - meta: sub_type
            value: \"empty_username_pass\"
      - grok:
          pattern: \"invalid login request USER=\\\(%{DATA:username}\\\)\"
          apply_on: message
        onsuccess: next_stage
        statics:
          - meta: username
            expression: evt.Parsed.username
          - meta: sub_type
            value: \"invalid_login\"
      - grok:
          pattern: \"(%{NOT_FOUND}|%{UNAUTH}) URI=\\\(%{DATA:http_path}\\\)\"
          apply_on: message
        pattern_syntax:
          NOT_FOUND: 'resource not found'
          UNAUTH: 'unauthorized request'
        onsuccess: next_stage
        statics:
          - meta: sub_type
            value: \"http_bruteforce\"" >> /etc/crowdsec/parsers/s01-parse/myapp.yaml
```{{exec}}

Commit message:

Fix parser since grok only detects on newly added attributes

crowdsec-parsers-scenarios/step2/8.md, after:

```yaml
MANDATORY: NO
TYPE: NODE
```

[golang type](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/crowdsecurity/crowdsec@v1.4.4/pkg/parser#Node)

```yaml{1,8,17}
      - filter: "evt.Parsed.message contains 'provided empty username or password'"
        statics:
          - meta: sub_type
            value: "empty_username_pass"
      - grok:
          pattern: "invalid login request USER=\\(%{DATA:username}\\)"
          apply_on: message
        statics:
          - meta: username
            expression: evt.Parsed.username
          - meta: sub_type
            value: "invalid_login"
      - grok:
          pattern: "(%{NOT_FOUND}|%{UNAUTH}) URI=\\(%{DATA:http_path}\\)"
          apply_on: message
        pattern_syntax:
          NOT_FOUND: 'resource not found'
          UNAUTH: 'unauthorized request'
        statics:
          - meta: sub_type
            value: "http_bruteforce"
```

We briefly touched on what properties a `node`{{}} could have in the previous step. There are many options so in this section we will be listing the most common ones and how they can be used.

#### Statics

We will take a deeper dive later on what statics is and how it can be used, but for this section we will learn some basics. In short, if the `GROK`{{}} pattern OR `FILTER`{{}} is successful on the `node`{{}} then the `statics`{{}} are applied to the event object.

```yaml{2,3}
        statics:
          - meta: sub_type
            value: "empty_username_pass"
```

So inside the first child `node`{{}} if the `message`{{}} property includes `provided empty username or password`{{}} then on `evt.Meta`{{}} the property `sub_type`{{}} will be populated with `empty_username_pass`{{}}. This will then be used within the scenarios to create different bucket types based on the attack types.

Moving on to the second child `node`{{}} we can see an interesting section within the `pattern`{{}}.

```
pattern: "invalid login request USER=\\(%{DATA:username}\\)"
                                     |                   |
                                    Here                Here
```

Why do we need to escape with `\\`{{}}? As the string is `GROK`{{}} and `RE2`{{}} the characters `()`{{}} are classed as special and we want to process them as characters in the string rather than a regexp syntax. So for this, we must place `\\`{{}} before each of them.

Here is a list of special characters and their function:

Characters | Function
---|---
[] | Matches a range of characters
() | Group characters
{} | Matches a specified number of occurrences of the previous
+ | Match one or more of the previous
| | Matches previous OR next character/group
? | Match zero or one of the previous
* | Match zero, one or more of the previous
. | Matches any single character
$ | End of a string
^ | Beginning of a string

>But in most common languages a single `\` is enough to escape? Yes normally, however, since it passed through 2 separate engines we must double escape.

Now the third child `node`{{}} incorporates what we learnt in the previous `node`{{}}, and shows how to detect two different strings with similar syntax.

#### Pattern syntax

```yaml{4,5,6}
      - grok:
          pattern: "(%{NOT_FOUND}|%{UNAUTH}) URI=\\(%{DATA:http_path}\\)"
          apply_on: message
        pattern_syntax:
          NOT_FOUND: 'resource not found'
          UNAUTH: 'unauthorized request'
```

`pattern_syntax`{{}} allows us to define named capture group expressions for future use in grok patterns. Regexp must be a valid RE2 expression.

So for example these log lines will be treated the same without having to repeat ourselves
```
2023-01-11T15:32:13Z 10.10.10.10 resource not found URI=(/favicon.ico)
2023-01-11T15:32:18Z 10.10.10.10 resource not found URI=(/notfound)
2023-01-11T15:32:22Z 10.10.10.10 unauthorized request URI=(/admin)
```

Let's add all the child nodes to our parser!
```
echo "      - filter: \"evt.Parsed.message contains \'provided empty username or password\'\"
        statics:
          - meta: sub_type
            value: \"empty_username_pass\"
      - grok:
          pattern: \"invalid login request USER=\\\(%{DATA:username}\\\)\"
          apply_on: message
        statics:
          - meta: username
            expression: evt.Parsed.username
          - meta: sub_type
            value: \"invalid_login\"
      - grok:
          pattern: \"(%{NOT_FOUND}|%{UNAUTH}) URI=\\\(%{DATA:http_path}\\\)\"
          apply_on: message
        pattern_syntax:
          NOT_FOUND: 'resource not found'
          UNAUTH: 'unauthorized request'
        statics:
          - meta: sub_type
            value: \"http_bruteforce\"" >> /etc/crowdsec/parsers/s01-parse/myapp.yaml
```{{exec}}
